Helpless Dream + 
October 17, 1999 + 
4:53 AM + 70 E 10 +NYC


HELPLESS DREAM


I.    I am in a rural train station, along a flat and level track bed.   Perhaps

in New York State, perhaps along the Hudson, like Peekskill or Pourkipsee.

Train comes in  --  I am with the engineer.   A genuine character type:

weathered face, overalls, puffy engineers cap.    Train starts up, and we pull

out of the station.  But the train is not a locomotive type.   It has a flat

front, like a New York City subway night repair car.. But things are fine, I am

riding with the engineer!   He is the authority figure here.


II.   Same thing, only there is this mark on the side of a metal wall in the

next town.  It has a hole in it.   The townsfolk discuss it, and, and notice

that it is not a "mark," but a hole in the dark, dusty metal.   "What is it?"

people ask.   I tell them, it's a bullet hole, from a .22.    They agree, even

the engineer agrees (he is the authority).   Actually, it is not simply a hole:

there is a raised figure, black against the black metal wall.   It is a figure

of a rooster (facing left), and there is a hole shot clean through its middle,

and through the wall.  (Why didn't the raised figure smash? I wonder.)   The

figure would measure about an inch by an inch.


III.  There may be (have been) an intervening segment here,  with the engineer

swimming in a brook, a brook overhung with trees.  (Like the Jordan?)


IV.   Now the engineer is in trouble.  He has forgotten how to swim!   He is a

big man, lumbering and slow moving.   (Like Rabbi Bernard, with whom I ate

yesterday at the Hevruda.)   He is in the water, splashing about, holding onto

something:  A black twig?  a replica of the rooster?   "Why are you in the

water!" I ask him, as he thrashes about.   "Because I gotta learn to swim!" he

exclaims.   I think, "This guy is going to drown, and am I expected to pull him

out?   He is big, very big and helpless in the water, but energetic.   He may

pull me under, and we both will drown.   The river is no place to learn how to

swim.    What am I going to do?


I awake, somewhat nervous....

[Of course, I did a lot of swimming recently, in Eilot, Israel, but nobody was

in trouble.   (Although I sdid swim far out, without a "buddy."   And the

grandchildren learned to swim this summer.   Yesterday (after the Hevruda) I

attended  Ruth Bernard's talk (Introduction to the Bible) and spoke to some

people.  I also raised a question:   Was she saying, that the Bible was written

in an evolutionary way, from different scrolls, edited by different redactors?

Over a long  --  long period of time?   She thought so.  So I asked, "Then it

was an evolution, rather than divinely inspired?"   "It could also have been

divinely inspired," she said.   "Beethoven was divinely inspired."    So I

commented, "Then the evolution of Mankind may also have been divinely inspired?"

Afterwards, several others ignored me.]


(5:09 AM)   (Corrected by 5:29 AM)


