<html>
<body>
<pre>
Incident #2 - March 2, 1999

	Last Friday, being February 26, 1999, Marilyn and I went to a dance 
theater on Mercer Street with Daniel Goode and Ann.   The show was most 
enjoyable and professional -- It deserved to be seen on a major stage.   How 
these performing artists rehearse (off and on) for a year and then do only two 
or three performances of such precision, with such elegance -- amazes me, both 
for the excellence -- and for the extravagance.   Marilyn seemed, at first,  not 
to enjoy the performance, but then, it seemed, she warmed up and was amused, 
even delighted, perhaps.   So I was pleased.

At the end, I blew my whistle in admiration, and, after gaining Marilyn’s 
support, walked over to the choreographer, and told her how much I enjoyed her 
work.  I also suggested that she wear red, as all the others wore black, but her 
character seemed the wildest !    We waited around as Daniel, being the 
composer-player of the event, assembled his instruments and greeted well 
wishers.  Marilyn stood quietly watching the scene from near the front window, 
so I joined her.

Since I had donated a "photo shoot" towards the company's "silent auction," 
Daniel came over and led me away from Marilyn and introduced me to Jody, the 
choreographer.  She thanked me and said that they had already received one bid 
for my efforts.   Daniel invited us to join them at the "Spring Street 
Vegetarian Restaurant" (or some such) and we moved out -- Daniel and Ann up 
ahead with the group, Marilyn and I in the rear.    She seemed tranquil.

As we passed a small cafe I (seemed to) remember eating there with Marilyn.   
Making conversation, I said, "Oh, this is a place we've eaten at."  She replied, 
"No, I never ate there.  You must be confusing me with another girl friend."    
My heart sank.   Marilyn must be fetching up from some dark depths Ivice, a 
practicing vegetarian I dated back in 1994 -- five years ago.    Darn it -- I 
wasn't even referring to the "Spring Street Vegetarian Restaurant" !!!    I 
meant the one we were passing, and I do remember taking Marilyn there when she 
first came to New York.   But she was seemingly into a self-negating mood.  
(Why, I wonder, can't she fight these off?   Or have the fortitude to ignore 
them?   Or, at least keep her silence so as not to throw a monkey-wrench into 
the evening  --  and our relationship?  And why does it seem to happen so often, 
that if she mis-hears something I say, what she  -- mistakenly --  hears is so 
much worse than what I actually meant?)    I told her that I was NOT talking 
about the restaurant to which we were going, but to the one we were passing. 
Marilyn remained silent, never acknowledging the "confusion."
 
Our table at the restaurant consisted of Daniel and Ann, alongside Marilyn, plus 
two women sitting across from us, and an empty chair, next ro me.   The mood was 
up-beat -- excitement and “electricity” flowed back and forth.   I enjoyed 
myself, and made, I admit, some remarkably awful puns and “bon mots,” to say so 
myself.   Soon, we were favored with the arrival of Jody, the choreographer, who 
took the empty chair next to me.   I remember speaking several times to Marilyn, 
who was still taciturn, asking her if she enjoyed the meal, encouraging her to 
have some wine, and mentioning to all that Marilyn came from Colorado (to draw 
her into the conversation).    But the talk was quick, borderline New York 
abrasive and jolly, and the evening passed quickly.  At one point Daniel 
recalled some opinion Myrna (my first wife, of 25 years ago) had once expressed, 
and I asked, rather archly and with exaggerated interest, “Oh, I am dying to 
know what she thought !!!”

The choreographer left the table at one point, and Marilyn and I stood up to let 
her return.   But instead, Jody climbed over the low rail behind our seats.  
This prompted me to say, “Well, I wouldn’t expect any less from a dancer-
choreographer!” or some such other drivel.   All in all, the evening passed 
well, I thought, and everyone seemed to have had a good time.

So I was surprised when, on the way home after I asked Marilyn how she had liked 
the evening, she replied, that, I had embarrassed her, “by flirting with all 
those women!”   She added that I had previously abandoned her in the lobby, to 
greet the choreographer.   I realized that trouble lay ahead, because Marilyn 
has mentioned more than once that her husband Brendan had often purposely 
flirted with other women, in order to make Marilyn jealous. (Exactly what he had 
hoped to achieve by this, I can’t imagine.  But Marilyn rightly resented his 
behavior, and now attributes it to me.  And then, alternately, tells me that she 
is quite entirely over such lousy jealousy.)

Thus began one of those snowballing flareups whose details I can only half-
remember, but which are as obnoxious as they are sophomoric and oxymoronic.   
She felt, it turned out, that I had ignored her all evening, that she felt 
skirted.   I remember her telling me at one point, something like, “But isn’t 
that just what you want me to be, the silent one, so you can be out there and 
shine?”  Then I stopped “defending” myself, told her that I do enjoy her 
company, that she does make me comfortable --, but that the evening was not 
about us or our relationship, nor about her or me.   It was about the choreogra-
pher who had just completed the premiere showing of a work she had labored on 
for a year.   That’s why I had picked up the check.   (While her silences do 
worry me -- there is little or nothing I can do about them.    I have told her 
quite often that I prefer relationships that tend toward similarity and 
equality, but Marilyn just doesn’t seem to “get it.”   And, at least, she is 
vastly preferable to an overbearing, bossy woman.)  

Of course, why I allowed myself to be provoked by her jealousy and hurt, instead 
of having been prepared for it, simply attests to my naiveté.  In truth, Marilyn 
does give me the stability and sense of security that enables me to relax, enjoy 
a conversation and risk entering into it in an apparently effortless way.  Were 
I to have been solo, by myself, I would never have felt free enough to jabber-
wocky with those articulate, perfect strangers.    And while I have told this to 
Marilyn  numerous times, she still just doesn’t (seem to) “get it.”   She can’t 
seem to appreciate how much I appreciate how much she supports me, or to 
appreciate me when I so enjoy myself.

We arrived home.  The “discussion” and hurt feelings continued to ricochet.   I 
told her that I cared for her, that I am contented with the relationship, 
although her apparent  pain and occasional misery cause me concern.   It prompts 
me to pull back, emotionally.    I told her I believed her moodiness to be 
beyond her control, caused by such things as her still-new surroundings, 
relative lack of  background in some of the things that New Yorkers discuss -- 
politics, current events, the cultural scene -- her youth and such physical 
realities as PMS, poor eyesight, some depression.   This, to let her know that I 
am sympathetic to her situation.    To show her compassion, “To cut you some 
slacks,”  I joked.    I can remain basically calm in the face of  her criticism 
of me, I said, but this is achieved at the cost of my distancing myself.    I 
accept my role as being the “strong one” in the relationship, I told her, 
something I have never experienced before.    That I try to keep our union in 
balance and take much pride in being able to overlook many problems.   Some 
“prob lems” are of my making (such as my sense of irritation and exasperation) 
but others are not.   

Eventually I took my pulse, found it to be 118/minute, and decided I had had 
enough.    I took a Xanax, and that night, I slept on the the living room couch 
(for the first time).

+ + +

	And then, this very morning, another “misunderstanding!”   Marilyn asked 
me if the latest “New Yorker” magazine had arrived?   Wasn’t the subscription 
renewed?     (Marilyn reads the New Yorker assiduously, I am glad to note.)     
I was not particularly worried, but, nevertheless, I looked up the telephone 
number of the subscription department in a copy of the magazine, circled it, and 
gave it to her, with the phone.     The print was small, so Marilyn asked me to 
read her the number, which I did, and she phoned them.

She reported that they told her that everything was okay -- so why, she asked 
me, worried, hadn’t we received an issue in a while?     I then recalled having 
noticed, while looking up the phone number, that some weeks were listed as being 
double issues -- only one would be printed for two weeks.     But I didn’t know 
which.    So I went back into the bedroom and, expecting Marilyn to be relieved, 
said,  “You know, some issues are combined, they only print one issue covering 
two weeks.”   Marilyn looked at me and said something like, “Oh, is that so?”    

I didn’t quite know how to reply, and apparently involuntarily made some kind of 
face.   (If  I had said, “Yes, that’s so,” experience told me Marilyn might take 
that as a put down or, as sarcasm.)   Maybe I said, “Yes, I’ll show you,” but it 
was too late.    The “damage” had been done.   I would have to face the music.)

Marilyn said, “Why are you looking at me as though you thought I said you were 
lying?”

I asked her, could she read my mind?   Did she know that I looked at her, “as 
though I thought she had said that I was lying?”    Or, did she merely think 
that I looked at her, “as though I thought she had said that I was lying?”   Or, 
had she “assumed” it,  or, “imagined” it?    Why not check it out?    Things 
were getting pretty complicated and convoluted at this point.    Marilyn was 
getting upset.    I was drifting into red alert.

(Was she upset because of some physical reality, such as PMS, or a depression?   
Maybe she was upset because she hadn’t been able to read the fine print herself, 
because of her poor eyesight?   Or, maybe she was embarrassed because she had 
supposed a false reality [the subscription had not renewed] which was somewhat 
more draconian than the actual reality [this week’s was a combined issue]?   
Perhaps she simply perceived my expression to be worse than what I was actually 
thinking?   Or, maybe she was experiencing some competition with me; her impa-
tience verses my patience?)   

Later, she appologized and kissed me.   I said, I didn’t blame her, I knew she 
couldn’t help reacting as she did.   Although this was (obviously?) intended 
graciously, to let her “off the hook,” Marilyn took it otherwise, and flared up 
again.    The morning didn’t feel very good for either of us.   I picked up the 
magazine and looked at the proverbial small print again.   Yes, the Feb. 2 - 
March 1 issues were combined.     And, the anxiously-awaited delivery arrived 
later this morning.

</pre>
</body>
</html>