The consultation at Sloan Kettering went very well, and in fact, was quite 
impressive.  Dr. Ki Young Chung is a personable, calm, professional doctor, who 
discussed my charts, X-rays and what I had written.

He was curious about my being treated by Dr. Bruckner at Lutheran with five 
medicines simultaneously, but NOT in a way to alarm me. We discussed the 
advantages and disadvantages of that over the usual two medicines.

He pointed out that there was one test which had NOT been administered to me: 
involving radioactive sugar.  But he noted that it was 'conclusive' in only 
25% of the cases in uncovering the organ of origin.  Dr. Bruckner had told me 
that delaying treatment on such a slim indicator was not worth it, in his 
opinion.  I agreed to take this test at S-K, with the results to be forwarded also, 
to Dr. Bruckner.

Dr. Chung also gave me an overall physical, which included measuring my 
height. The last time that was done was 15 - 20 years ago and since then I have 
apparently shrunk 1  1/2  inches.   Actually, I FEEL more 'grounded' than 
previously. 

I asked Dr. Chung how long he had been with S-K and he said he was finishing 
a four-year fellowship.  I asked where he'd been before:  Johns Hopkins.  I 
was further impressed.

He asked should I take home my X-rays or should he copy them?  I asked him to 
copy them, then return them as I want to keep this avenue open, 

Today, I returned to Lutheran [it takes about as long to get there, in Sunset 
Park, as it takes to get to Mountainside Hospital, in Montclair!]  and found, 
as expected, that my white and red blood counts were depressed.  They gave me 
two shots to stimulate production [W & R] and I return again, Thursday and 
Friday.

I am hiccupping but Dr. Edna at Lutheran, who saw me today, does NOT think 
that that is connected with my main condition.  I was give a medication for 
THAT, also.

This situation will NOT clear up with any rapidity, is a long term condition 
for which the 'cure' or amelioration will only be found by trial and error.  
It is questionable whether I will find real relief before, or, after, the US 
Army leaves Iraq.

I appreciate your concern, of course !

Much love,   Me
