<html>
<xmp>
phillip i danzig + architect + 70 east 10th st + nyc  ny  10003 - 5110 + (212) 
674 - 3721 + pidanzig@aol.com

June 30, 1998

Freeman and Bass
Suite 726
24 Commerce Street
Newark  NJ  07102

RE:	NATHANIEL HARDY  V.  HERMAN SOMMER;  METCO;  ET AL
	YOUR FILE   #52429-l

Gentlemen

On June 8, 1998, you gave me documents relating to the referenced matter, and 
requested that I determine which contractor was responsible for an accident that 
was alleged to have occurred on August 16, 1995, to Nathaniel N. Hardy, Jr., 
Head Custodian, resulting from him stepping on unsecured pipes in the boiler 
room of the Oliver Street School, Newark, New Jersey.    Although the documents 
you supplied are incomplete (as will be noted below) I examined them on June 11, 
1998, June 15 and June 29th and have made the following observations and formed 
the following opinions.

	METCO:	The following important, required and relevant items were 
mentioned in the documents offered, but were NOT among those supplied:

	1)	Sign-in logs for the Oliver Street School for the relevant period, 
1995
	2s)	Engineering Drawings M1 and M2 by Behr Engineering, showing Site 	
		Plan, Boiler Room Layout, Details, etc.
	3s)	Layout of Areas for Delivery and Storage of Materials, as designated 
and 			approved by the Owner, the Newark Board of Education (a.k.a. 
			Newark Public Schools) for oil to gas conversion
	4s)	Shop Drawings (by Contractor for oil to gas conversion)
	5cs)	As-Built Drawings (by Contractor for oil to gas conversion)
	6cs)	Accident Report (as required by OSHA and Contract)
	7c)	Schedule of Progress of the Work
	8)	Certified Payroll Record (required by Contract to ascertain 
compliance 			with Prevailing Wage and Affirmative Action 
requirements)

With regard to Metco (or, Maytor Corp., Inc.) for oil to gas boiler conversion, 
the documents show that this company was under contract during the relevant 
period (August, 1995) and that they performed work on the boiler at the Oliver 
Street School.   This work appears to have involved piping installation valued 
at some $33,330.00 (or $35,330.00).   



Continued/

June 30, 1998
Freeman and Bass
RE:	NATHANIEL HARDY  V.  H. SOMMER;  METCO;  ET AL/YOUR FILE   #52429-l
Page two


The Contract between the Owner and the Contractor holds the Contractor, Metco, 
responsible for all matters pertaining to the work and the site, including 
safety.  This includes the delivery of any pipes involved, their storage in the 
boiler room and, of course, the handling of pipes in the course of the work.   
This responsibility devolves upon Metco, even if their supplier delivered the 
pipes or if any of their subcontractors performed part of the removal or 
installation work.

Nevertheless, The documentation which I examined demonstrates that much work, 
including piping, was performed by at least one subcontractor, Miller & Chitty 
Co., Inc.   These references consist of two letters from Miller & Chitty and 
addressed to Metco.    One, dated August 28, 1995 and signed by Dave Balogh, 
reads, in part, as follows:


	The front blowdown piping is centered where the gas piping goes into the 
gas 	housing on all three (3) units.  We will remove the blowdown piping to fit 
the gas 	piping in (sic) and your piping guy can re-route the blowndown 
piping when he 	returns.

	...we cannot complete the gas conversion on #3 until the throat tiles are 
installed.

A second letter to Metco, dated September 12, 1995, and signed by Tom Keall, 
noted that ?all three (3) Burner Drawers and Extension Housings are missing,? 
and adds:

	Also, (Miller & Chitty) is in process of finishing our gas conversion work 
and 	noting (sic) has been done to Refractory on number 3 unit at school.

These statements lead me to conclude that Metco?s sub-contractor, Miller & 
Chitty Co., Inc., was responsible for a substantial portion of the gas 
conversion job and performed a significant section of the work --  including the 
installation of piping.   

In order to confirm (or deny) this conclusion, it is essential that we examine 
Metco?s working arrangement with this sub-contractor, the time-frame in which 
the sub-contractor worked, the names of workers used, what their specific duties 
were and other related documentation.   This could be in the form of Metro?s 
Contracts with Miller & Chitty, including time engaged, amount of contract, 
service or material rendered and so forth.




Continued/
June 30, 1998
Freeman and Bass
RE:	NATHANIEL HARDY  V.  H. SOMMER;  METCO;  ET AL/YOUR FILE   #52429-l
Page three


	HERMAN SOMMERS & ASSOC.:	With regard to Herman Sommers & Assoc., the 
documents show that they held two maintenance contracts with the Owner during 
the relevant period.   One was for retubing boilers and associated boiler 
repairs, and  the other for refractory work (fire brick) at all District 
Schools, including the Oliver Street School.   However, the documents show that 
this firm performed retubing in October and December of 1994, one year prior to 
the accident.    They also reveal that this firm completed work at the Oliver 
Street School during 1995, but this work consisted of replacement of fire brick, 
not tubes.   This is confirmed by payment documents from the Owner which show 
refractory (firebrick) work (July 24, 1995 in the amount of  $865.00);  baffle 
tile work and doors (July 28, 1995 in the amount of $3,143.00);  and burner tile 
work (October 3, 1995, for $912.00).   

After reviewing this data, I conclude that it is unlikely that the work of 
Herman Sommers during the time in question (August, 1995) involved the delivery, 
storage or use of tubing, as depicted as the immediate cause of the accident in 
question.   However, since this firm had employees at the School, in the boiler 
room, they may have moved or relocated tubes that were there and are likely to 
possess information relevant to the issue of responsibility for the condition of 
this space.

I would be pleased to render further clarification on the points discussed 
above, or on other matters involved in this matter, should you so wish.   If you 
have any questions arising from this study, do not hesitate to contact my 
office.


Sincerely



Phillip I Danzig RA
PID/moi

</xmp>
</html>