phillip i. danzig +
architect +
70 east 10th st +
nyc   ny  10003 + 
(212) 674 - 3721 + 

PIDanzig@AOL


January 12, 1997


Mr. Al Kemper

155 East "C" Street

Upland  CA  91786


RE:   PUBLICATION OF CERTAIN ANCIENT ARTICLES


Dear Al


I am enclosing recent copies of some of the ancient articles  which you

requested from  me.   Months of January, March, September and October of 1967 of

Architectural & Engineering NEWS.  I hope you read them.    I hope you like

them.


I was Technical Editor of A&E NEWS for two years, between 1965 - 1967.  In this

capacity I was responsible for one (1) feature article of  2,000 words per

month, plus "Previews" or "Case Studies" of individual buildings;  "Profiles" of

various architects, engineers or agencies;   the editing of various technical

articles by contributing authors, the occasional book review, and, towards the

end of my stint there, the editing of a monthly series on legal case studies.

They only credited one (1) story per author per month.  I also contributed the

occasional photograph.


Soon after I was hired, the magazine was sold to Chilton Publications, but

remained in Montclair for about a year.   Eventually, operations were moved to

Philadelphia but I did not follow.   While I am naturally pleased that you are

considering republication of my  work, I do not believe that I own the

copyright, if one still exists.  This is after what I believe to be the initial

17-year copyright period, but whether this can be, or has been renewed, I do not

know.


I don't recall you telling me how you intend to use any of this, and so I do not

know what publication agreements you are seeking or offering.   Obviously, my

interest lies more in seeing that this work remains alive than in any secondary

monetary profit, now.    Of course, should you actually publish any of this, I

would expect the normal credit line and at least one copy of whatever form it

takes.   In any event, I know that we can work something out and request that

you let me know what the deal is (or isn't) when it starts to "jell."


Jackie tells me that she is alive and well, and why should I not believe her?

She says she is about to visit Oaxaca, Mexico, and, by some petty coincidence,

I am going there for a month around the middle of February, with Marilyn, my

traveling companion.   (Is there anything I can do for you there?  photos? for

instance?)


Sincerely



Phillip I. Danzig  RA

PID/moi
