
phillip i danzig  +  architect  +  70 east 10th st.  +  nyc  ny   10003  +  (212) 674 - 3721  (E-mail) pidanzig@aol
cc:     1) The McKinsey Team   2) Ms. J. Cynthia Weber
December  4, 1997 

Mr. Fred Karp, President
Town and Village Synagogue
334 East 14th Street
New York  NY  10003 - 4296

RE:	STRATEGIC PLANNING WORKSHOP/CAPITAL PROJECTS

I am pleased to be able to input into both the McKinsey workshop and the Capital Project effort.     

First off, is the maximum advantage being taken from the coincidence of these twin efforts?      My experience, and logic,  suggests that these activities be chronologically coordinated, which does not seem to be the case here.   That is, mission,  and principles and  program  objectives are perhaps most happily established and prioritized before the setting of capital improvement goals.   One might expect that conceptual physical designs should grow out of the guiding principles being developed.    Otherwise, what is built may not correspond  as well as it might to the organization's objectives, with less than optimal economy.   Is the architect  involved with the strategic planning process in some way,  perhaps as an observer?    Of course,  I do not have before me both schedules, and I am therefore only reacting to what I see on the McKinsey letter of November 20, and the call for conceptual  designs on December 14, 1997.   

Secondly, although the proposed Mission statement is gratifying and  inoffensive,   here is some feedback, as requested.    The statement reads, "To create a mutually supportive Jewish community dedicated to traditional, Conservative and 
egalitarian values."  From my  limited experience as a new member, I feel strongly that a community has already been 
created:  that is why I joined.  Forgive me, Fred, if I am carping!  But perhaps words like, "strengthen,"  "improve," or 
"empower,"  could be considered?    Alternatively, an objective, or goals might be usefully stated here,  such as, to assure continuity, to fortify worship, to intensify  fellowship, to be a light to the nations of the world, or to establish a
 house wherein sanctity may dwell?

Regarding Capital Projects, again, it is not altogether clear how preliminary conceptual  architectural designs may be 
usefully developed before the congregation's mission statement,     with its principles and specific programs designed to
 meet these goals, have been  proposed, prioritized and approved.  What are the significant functions which the Flax Chapel, the Grayson Library, the Bierman Social Hall and the Kleiman Classroom are to accommodate?   What size groups are expected?  Can alternate space be found at the basement level? Are new functions likely to be forthcoming from the strategic planning  effort, which the kitchen should serve?     Perhaps these answers are generally known  to other congregants with long standing.

Finally, Let me commend the Board of Trustees and to Capital Project team for their insight in seeking wide input into these far-reaching plans.         

Sincerely,	
Phillip I. Danzig

